- Hey Brian. - Hey.
- Hey, hey everyone out there.
Thanks for being here on the live stream
and watching afterwards.
Get the uncut version.
And look at that Brian, you already kicked this thing off
early morning, like first thing of the week for us.
- Yeah. - Here on Monday.
- Monday morning, why not?
- Why not, all right.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes
where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds.
This is the Python Bytes podcast.
This is episode 342, recorded June 25th, 2023.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
- And I am Brian Okken.
- And this episode is brought to you by Brian and me.
Us, our work.
So support us, support the show,
keep us doing what we're doing
by checking out our courses over at Talk Python Training.
We have a bunch, including a really nice pytest course
written by Brian.
Check out the Test to Code podcast, the Patreon supporters.
Brian's got a book as well in pytest.
You may have heard of this.
Please, if you check those things out,
share them with your friends, share,
recommend them to your coworkers.
It really makes a difference.
You can also connect with us on Mastodon.
You'll see that over on the show notes for every episode.
And finally, you can join us over at pythonbytes.fm/live
if you want to be part of the live recording,
usually, usually, Tuesdays at 11 a.m. Pacific time,
but not today.
No, Brian, we're starting nice and early
because, well, it's vacation time.
And well, plumb bum, I think we should
just get right into it.
- Sure, plumb bum, let's do it.
- It's a new saying, it's an expression.
Plumb bum, let's just do it.
- Let's just do it.
Yeah, I have no idea where this comes from.
But the, well, I do know where it comes from.
It was last week.
Last week we talked about shells and Henry Schreiner said,
"Hey, you should check out Plumbum.
It's kind of like what you're talking about, but also neat."
So I did.
- We were talking about shh.
- Oh, right.
We were talking about shh.
- Don't tell anyone.
- So Plumbum, it's a little easier to search for actually
than shh.
So what is it?
It's a Python library and it's got,
It's shell combinations.
It's for interacting with your environment.
And there we go.
Henry Schreiner, one of the maintainers.
So it's a tool that you can install
so that you can interact with your operating system
and file system and stuff like that
and all sorts of other things.
And it's got a little bit different style than sh.
But it, so I was taking a look at,
It's kind of like a local command for one.
The basics are you like import from Plumbum, import local,
and then you can run commands
as if you were just running a shell,
but you do this within your Python code.
And there's also some convenience ones like SH has,
like LS and grep and things like that.
But it generally looks like there's more stuff
around how you operate with a shell normally,
things like piping.
So you can, you know, you can pipe one,
like LS to grab to word count or something like that
to count files.
You can, I mean, there's other ways to do it within Python,
but if you're used to doing it in the shell,
just wrapping the same work in a Python script, why not?
Things like, yeah, redirection,
manipulating your working directory,
just all sorts of fun stuff to do with your shell,
but through Python.
- The pipe overriding the,
you know, the pipe operator in Python overwrite
sort of actually in the language
being the same as in the shell
is a little bit like Pathlib doing the divide aspect, right?
Like we're gonna grab some operator
and make it that it probably was never really imagined
to be used for, but we're gonna make it use it
So it looks like what you would actually,
the abstraction you're representing,
which is pretty interesting.
- Yeah, and they could, like this example,
they have an example in the readme
of piping LS to grep to word count.
And they like define that as a chain
and it doesn't even run it, I don't think.
It just defines this new sequence
so you can chain together script commands.
And if you print it, so it has a probably a stir
or a wrapper implementation that shows you exactly
what the, all the pipe and the chaining was.
So that's kind of a neat thing for debugging.
And then when you actually run it, then it,
then it, you call that thing like a function
and it runs it.
That's pretty neat.
So.
- It is.
Yeah, it is.
You can even do them inline, just put parentheses
around them and kind of execute at the end.
- Yeah, pretty interesting.
- Yeah, yeah, anyway, just a fun little quick shout out
to Plumbum, so.
- Yeah, if you thought SH was cool last time,
then you might also check this out, right?
They kind of play in similar spaces.
- Yeah, yeah, that's one of the things--
- We're talking about--
- No, just one of the things I like about Python
and the Python community is this variety
of different libraries that might solve the same space,
but have a different flavor.
You know, some people like chocolate,
some people like vanilla.
So. - Yeah.
Well, I'm a big fan of caramel.
So how about we talk about Faster CPython?
(laughing)
- Okay, I'm not sure.
- So the Faster CPython is,
they're really starting to show some results, right?
Python 3.11 was 40% faster, I believe is,
you know, roughly speaking, working with averages
and all those things.
And we've got 3.12 coming with more optimizations.
And ultimately the faster CPython plan was, you know,
put together and laid out by Mark Shannon.
And the idea was if we could make, you know,
improvements like 40% faster, but over and over again,
because of, you know, compounding sort of numbers there,
we'll end up with a really fast CPython,
a faster one you might say, in five releases,
five times faster in five releases.
And so that started really with 3.10,
and then 3.11, 3.12, not the one that's coming,
but the one that's coming in a year and a few months,
3.11, they're laying out their work for that.
And it's looking pretty ambitious.
And so in 3.12, they're coming up with ways
to optimize blocks of code.
So in 3.11, stepping a little bit back,
we've got the adaptive specializing interpreter
or specializing adaptive interpreter.
I haven't pulled up in front of me,
which order those words go in,
but that will allow CPython to replace the byte codes
with more specific ones.
So if it sees that you're doing a float
plus a float operation instead of just doing word,
we're doing an abstract plus,
you know, is that a list plus a string?
Is that an integer and a float?
Is that actually a float and a float?
And if it's a float and a float,
then we can specialize that to do more specific,
more efficient types of math and that kind of stuff, right?
3.12 is supposed to have
what they're calling the tier one optimizer.
And so, which optimizes little blocks of code,
but they're pretty small.
And so one of the big things coming here in 3.13
is a tier two optimizer.
So bigger blocks of code,
something they're calling super blocks,
which I'll talk about in just a second.
The other one that sounds really amazing
is enabling sub-interpreters from Python code.
So we know about PEP 554, this has been quite the journey
and massive amount of work done by Eric Snow.
And the idea is if we have a GIL,
then we have serious limits on concurrency, right?
From a computational perspective,
not from an IO one potentially.
And I'm sitting here on my M2 Pro with 10 cores
and no matter how much multi-threaded Python I write,
if it's all computational, all running Python bytecode,
I get 1/10 of the capability of this machine, right?
'Cause of the GIL.
So the idea is, well, what if we could have
each thread have its own GIL?
So there's still, sure, a limit to how much work
that can be done in that particular thread concurrently,
but it's one thread dedicated to one core,
and the other core gets its own other subinterpreter,
that doesn't share objects in the same way,
but they can pass them around through certain mechanisms.
Anyway, so this thing has been a journey, like I said,
created 2017, and it has all this history up until now.
And the status still says draft, and now the Python version--
I think the PEP is approved, and work has been done,
but it's still in pretty early stages.
that's a pretty big deal is to add that that's supposed to show up in 3.13
and in Python code and this is a big deal I think that in 3.12 the work has
been done so that it's internally possible it's internally done if I
remember correctly but there's no way to use it from Python right like it's if
If you're a creator of interpreters,
basically you can use it.
So now the idea is like, let's make this possible
for you to do things like start a thread
and give it its own sub-interpreter,
copy its objects over, let it create its own,
and really do computational parallelism,
guessing interaction with async and await
and those kinds of things.
And also more improved memory management.
Let's see what else.
- Well, so I guess along with that,
we're gonna have to have some tutorials or something
on how do the two sub-interpreters share information.
- Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, we will.
What I would love to see is just on the thread object,
give the thread object,
use sub-isolating, isolate sub-interpreter
or new sub-interpreter equals true, and off it goes.
That would be excellent.
And then maybe it pickles the object.
I don't know, we can see how they come up with that.
But this is good news.
I think it's the kind of thing
that's not that important necessarily for a lot of people,
but for those who it is, it's like,
you know, really we want this to go a lot faster.
What can we do here, right?
- Yeah.
- That sounds complicated.
Does it make it go faster?
Yay, then do it.
(laughing)
- Well, and you know,
compared to a lot of the other alternatives
that we've had for, I have 10 cores,
why can I only use one of them on my Python code
without multi-processing?
This is one of those that doesn't affect
single-threaded performance.
It's one of those things that there's not a cost
to people who don't use it, right?
Whereas a lot of the other types of options are like,
well, sure, your code gets 5% slower,
but you could make it a lot faster
if you did a bunch more work.
- Yeah, and that's been a hard sell
and also a hard line that Guido put in the sand,
saying like, look, we can't make regular,
non-concurrent Python slower for the sake of,
you know, this more rare,
but sometimes specialized, right, concurrent stuff.
So they'd done a bunch of foundational work
and then the three main things are the tier two optimizer,
sub-interpreters for Python and memory management.
So the tier two optimizer,
There's a lot of stuff that you kind of got to look around.
So check out the detailed plan.
They have this thing called copy and patch.
So you can generate like roughly
these things called super blocks,
and then you can implement,
they're planning to implement basic super block management.
And Brian, you may be thinking,
what are these words you're saying, Michael?
Duplo.
They're not those little Legos.
No, they're big, big Duplos.
Well, that's kind of true.
So they were optimizing smaller pieces, like little tiny bits,
but you can only have so much of an effect
if you're working on small blocks of code
that you're optimizing.
So a superblock is a linear piece of code
with one entry and multiple exits.
It differs from a basic block in that it
may duplicate some code.
So they just talk about considering
different types of things you might optimize.
So I'll link over to--
So there's a big long discussion, lots of graphics
people could go check out.
So yeah, they're going to add support
for deoptimization of superblocks,
enhance the code creation, implement the specializer,
and use this algorithm called copy and patch.
So implement the copy and patch machine code generator.
You don't normally hear about a machine code generator, do you?
- No. - But, you know,
that sounds like a JIT compiler or something along those lines.
Yeah, anyway, so that's the goal.
And reduce the time spent in the interpreter by 50%.
If they make that happen, that sounds all right to me,
just for this one feature.
- That's pretty neat. Yeah, wow.
- Pretty good. And I talked a whole bunch about
the subinterpreter's final thing.
The profiling data shows that a large amount of time
is actually spent in memory management
and the cycle GC, all right?
And while when Python, I guess,
if you do 40% a bunch of times,
it was maybe half this fast before,
like, 'cause remember, we're like a few years out
working back on this plan.
In 3.9, 3.8, maybe it didn't matter as much
because as a percentage of where is CPython
spending its time,
it was not that much time on memory management.
But as all this other stuff gets faster and faster,
if they don't do stuff to make the memory management faster,
it's gonna be like, well, half the time
is memory management, what are we doing?
So they say, as we get the VM faster,
this is only gonna be a larger percent of our time,
so what can we do?
So do fewer allocations to improve data structures.
For example, partial evaluation
to reduce the number of temporary objects,
which is part of the other section of their work,
and spend less time doing cycle GCs,
It could be as simple as doing fewer calculations
or as complex as implementing a new incremental cycle finder.
Either way, it sounds pretty cool.
So that's the plan for a year and a couple of months.
It's pretty exciting.
I'm really happy that these people are working on it.
I am too.
It's a team of, I think, last time I counted,
five or six people.
There's a big group of them around Guido at Microsoft,
but then also outside.
- Yeah.
- So for example, this was written by Mark Shannon,
who's there, but also Michael Dropboom,
who was at Mozilla, but I don't remember where he is
right now.
- Cool last name, Dropboom.
- Yes, indeed.
All right, over to you, Brian.
- Well, that was pretty heavy.
I'm gonna do kind of a light topic,
is we need more people to write blogs about Python.
who would help us out a lot, really.
And one of the ways you could do that
is to just head over and check out
one of the recent articles from Julia Evans
about some blogging myths.
And I guess this is a pretty light-hearted topic,
but also serious.
But we have some more fun stuff in the extras,
so don't worry about it.
Anyway, so there's a few blogging myths,
And I just wanted to highlight these
'cause I think it's good to remember
that these are just wrong.
So I'll just run through them quickly.
You don't need to be original.
You can write content that other people have covered before.
That's fine.
You don't need to be an expert.
Posts don't need to be 100% correct.
Writing boring posts is bad.
So these are, oh wait, the myths are,
the myth is you need to be original.
That's not true.
Myth, you need to be an expert.
Posts need to be 100% correct.
Also myth, all these are myths.
Writing boring posts is bad.
Boring posts are fine if they're informational.
You need to explain every concept.
Actually, that will just kill your audience
if you explain every little detail.
Page views matter.
More material is always better.
Everyone should blog.
These are all myths, according to Julia.
And then she goes through a lot of the,
in detail into each one of them.
And I kind of want to like,
hover on the first two a little bit of,
you need to be original and you need to be an expert.
I think it's,
when we're learning,
we're learning about the software,
a new library or a new technique or something,
often I'm like, I'm reading Stack Overflow,
I'm reading blog posts, I'm reading maybe books,
who knows, reading a lot of stuff on it.
And you'll get all that stuff in your own perspective
of how it really is.
And then you can sort of,
like the cheating book report you did in junior high,
where you just like rewrote some of the encyclopedia,
but changed it.
Don't do that.
But it doesn't,
you don't have to come up with a completely new technique
or something.
You can just say, oh, all the stuff I learned,
I'm going to put it together and like write like my,
my workflow now or the process or just a little tiny bit.
It doesn't have to be long. It can be a short thing of like, Oh,
I finally got this. It's way easier than I thought it was.
And writing little,
little aha moments are great times to just write that down as a little blog
post. the other thing of,
you don't need to be an expert is a lot of us got started blogging while we were
learning stuff as a way to write that down.
So you're definitely not an expert as you're learning stuff.
So go ahead and write about it then.
And it's a great way to, and that ties into,
it doesn't need to be a hundred percent correct.
As you get more traction in your blog,
people will like let you know if you made a mistake.
And in the Python community, usually it's nice.
They'll like mention, hey, this isn't quite right anymore.
And I kind of love that about our community.
So I want to go back to the original part
is you don't even have to be original
from your own perspective.
If you wrote about something like last year,
go ahead and write about it again.
If you think it's important and it needs,
and you sort of have a different way to explain it,
you can write another blog post about a similar topic.
- Yeah, I totally agree.
I also want to add a couple of things.
- Okay.
- I would like to add that your posts, the myth,
your posts have to be long or like an article
or you need to spend a lot of time on it.
The biggest example of this in terms of like
successful in the face of just really short stuff is
John Gruber's Daring Fireball.
This is an incredibly popular site
and the entire articles are,
it starts out with him quoting often someone else
and that's like two paragraphs, which is half the article
and say, here's my thoughts on this,
or here's something interesting,
let's highlight it or something, right?
And my last blog post was four paragraphs and a picture,
maybe five if you count the bonus, right?
Not too many people paid attention to mine
'cause the titles, you can ignore this post.
So I don't know, I'm having a hard time
getting traction with it, but.
(laughing)
- I actually, I like that you highlighted
that good John Gruber style.
There's a lot of different styles of blog posts,
and one of them is reacting to something.
Because a lot of people have actually turned--
you can either comment on somebody's blog
or talk about it on Reddit or something,
or you can react to it on your own blog and link to it.
Still link to it on Reddit or something, yeah.
Not anymore because Reddit went private out of protest,
but somewhere else if you find another place.
Or maybe post on Twitter.
No, don't do that.
Let's--
Yeah, it's getting hard.
Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
- Funny, I had another one as well, but oh yeah.
So there's not a myth, but just another thing,
another source of inspiration is if you come across
something that really surprised you,
like if you're learning, right, kind of to add on,
like I'm not an expert, if you come across something
and like, wow, Python really, it broke my expectations.
I thought this was gonna work this way.
Gosh, it's weird here.
People, it seems like a lot of people think
it works this way, but it works
in some completely other way.
that could be a cool little write up.
Also, people might be searching like,
why does Python do this?
They might find your quote boring article
and go that was really helpful.
Right, so yeah.
- I still remember way back when I started writing
about pytest and unit tests and stuff.
There was a feature, a behavior of tear down functionality
that behaved different.
It was like sort of the same in Nose and Unit Test
and then different in pytest.
And I wrote a post that said,
"Maybe Unit Test is broken
"because I kind of like this pytest behavior."
And I got a reaction from some of the pytest contributors
that said, "Oh no, we just forgot,
"didn't test that part, so that's wrong.
"We'll fix it."
(laughing)
What a meta problem that Hytest didn't test the thing.
- Yeah, well, I mean, it was really corner case,
but I'm kind of a fastidious person
when I'm looking at how things work.
But the other thing I wanna say is a lot of things
written by other people are old enough
that they don't work anymore.
If you're following along with like a little tutorial
and it doesn't work anymore because the language changed
or the library they're using is not supported anymore
or something, that's a great opportunity to go,
well, I'll just kind of write it in my own language,
but, or in my own style, but also make it current
and to make it work this time.
So that's good.
- Indeed.
- Anyway, okay.
Well, let's go back to something more meaty.
- Yeah, something like AI.
So I want to tell you about Jupyter AI, Brian.
Jupyter AI is a pretty interesting project here.
It's a generative AI extension for JupyterLab.
I believe it also works in Jupyter and IPython,
I just IPython prompt as well.
And so here's the idea.
There's a couple of things that you can do.
So Jupyter has this thing called a magic, right?
Where you put 2% in front of a command
and it applies it to an extension to Jupyter,
not trying to run Python code,
but it says, let me find this thing.
In this case, you say %%AI,
and then you type some stuff.
So that stuff you type afterwards,
then turns on a certain behavior for that particular cell.
And so this AI magic, literally it's percent percent AI,
and then they call it a magic or it is a magic.
So AI magic turns Jupyter Notebooks into reproducible,
it's the interesting aspect, generative AI.
So think if you could have ChatGPT or open AI type stuff
clicked right into your notebook.
So instead of going out to one of these AI chat systems
and say, I'm trying to do this, tell me how to do this,
or could you explain that data?
You just say, hey, that cell above, what happened here?
Or I'm trying, I have this data frame, do you see it above?
Okay, good.
How do I visualize that in a pie chart
or some, you know, in those donut graphs using Plotly?
And it can just write it for you as the next cell.
- Interesting, okay.
- Interesting, right?
- Yeah.
It runs anywhere the IPython kernel works.
So JupyterLab, Jupyter Notebooks, Google Colab,
VS Code, probably PyCharm, although they don't call it out.
And it has a native UI chat.
So in JupyterLab, not Jupyter,
there's like a left pane that has stuff.
It has like your files,
and it has other things that you can do.
And it will plug in another window on the left there
that is like a ChatGPT.
So that's pretty cool.
Another really interesting difference
is this thing supports its model or platform agnostic.
So if you like AI21 or Anthropic or OpenAI or SageMaker
or HuggingFace, et cetera, et cetera,
you just say, please use this model.
And they have these integrations across these different things.
So for example, you could be going along saying,
I'm using OpenAI.
That's a terrible answer.
Let's see, let's ask Anthropic the same thing.
And then right there below, you can use these different models
and different AI platforms.
Actually, it did really good on this one.
I'm just going to keep using that one now for this part of my data.
- Hmm, okay. - Okay?
So how do you install it?
You pip install jupyter_ai.
That's it. It's good to go.
Then you plug in your various API keys
or whatever you need to as environment variables.
So they give you an example here.
So you would say %%AI ChatGPT, and then you type something.
Please generate the Python code to solve the 2D Laplace
equation in the Cartesian coordinates.
Solve the equation on the square, such and such,
with vanishing boundary conditions, et cetera.
"the solution to matplotlib.
Also, please provide an explanation."
And then look at this, it goes, da-da-da-da-da,
and down it goes.
And you can see off it shows you how to implement it.
That's the only part that's shown.
You can also have it do graphics.
Anything that those models will generate is HTML,
just show up.
So you could say, "Create a square using SVG
with a black border and white fill."
And then what shows up is not SVG commands
like little definition.
You just get a square because it put it in HTML as a response,
and so that showed up.
You can even do LaTeX, like dash F is math,
generate a 2D heat equation, and you
get this partial differential equation thing in LaTeX.
You can even ask it to write a poem, whatever you do.
So that's one of the--
Go back to the poem one.
Yeah, it says write a poem in the style of variable names.
So you can have commands with variable, insert variable stuff.
So that's interesting.
So you can also--
Jupyter has inputs and outputs.
Like along the left side, there's like a 9 and a 10.
And those are like the order they were executed.
You can say, using input of 9, which
might be the previous cell or something,
or output of nine, go do, you know, take that and go do other things, right?
Like, kind of, that's how I opened this conversation.
One of the really interesting examples that David Q pointed out, there's a nice talk that he gave
in a link to in the show notes at PyData like a week ago, was he had written some code,
two examples, one, he had written some code, a bunch of calculations and pandas,
and then he created a plot, but the plot wasn't showing
because he forgot to call plot.show.
And he asks one of the AIs, it depends,
you can ask a bunch depending on which model
you tell it to target.
He said, "Why isn't, hey, in that previous cell,
"why isn't my plot showing?"
It said, "Because you forgot to call show."
So here's an example of your code above,
but that works and shows the plot.
That's pretty cool for help, right?
- Yeah, geez.
- Instead of going to stack overflow
or even trying to copy that into one of these AIs,
you just go, "Hey, that thing I just did,
it didn't do what I expected."
Why?
Here's your answer.
Not in a general sense,
but like literally grabbing your data and your code.
Two final things that are interesting here.
The other, maybe three.
The other one is he had some code that was crashing.
I can't remember what it was doing,
but it was throwing some kind of exception
and it wasn't working out.
And so he said, why is this code crashing?
And it explained what the problem was with the code
and how to fix it, right?
So super, super interesting here.
- I'll have to check that out.
Yeah, we have that link in the show notes.
- Yeah, the talk is really, really interesting.
I'm trying to think, there's one other thing
that was in that talk.
It's like a 40 minute talk, so I don't remember all of it.
Anyway, there's more to it that goes on also beyond this.
It looks pretty interesting.
If you live in Jupyter and you think that these AI models
have something to offer you,
then this is definitely worth checking out.
Alvaro says, "You know, as long as it doesn't hallucinate
"a non-existing package."
(laughs)
Yeah, that's, I mean, that is the thing.
What's kind of cool about this is it puts it right into code.
You can run it and see if it does indeed work
and do what it says.
So anyway, that's our last--
yeah, go ahead.
>>Oh, before we move away too much,
I was listening to an NPR show talking about AI.
And somebody did research, I think
that was for the New York Times, a research project.
And it found out that sometimes they
would ask, what's the first instance of this phrase showing
up in the newspaper or something?
And it would make up stuff.
And they'd say, well, can you show those examples?
And it would show snippets of fake articles
that actually never were there.
It did that for--
that's crazy.
It did that for legal proceedings as well.
And a lawyer cited those cases.
got sanctioned or whatever lawyers get when they do it wrong.
Those are wrong.
Don't do that.
Also, the final thing that was interesting that I now remember that made me pause to think, Brian,
is you can point it at a directory of files, like HTML files, Markdown files, CSV files,
just like a bunch of files that happen to be part of your project and you wish it had knowledge of.
So you can say /learn and point it at a sub-directory of your project.
It will go learn that stuff in those documents.
And then you can say, "Okay, now I have questions."
Like if it learned some statistics about a CSV.
The example that David gave was he had copied all the documentation for Jupyter AI over
into there and it told it to go learn about itself.
And then it did.
And then you could talk to it about it
based on the documentation.
So if you've got a whole bunch of research papers,
for example, and I learned those,
now I need to ask you questions
about this astronomy study, okay?
Who studied this and who found what?
You know, whatever, right?
Like these kinds of questions are pretty amazing.
- Yeah, and actually some of this stuff
would be super powerful,
especially if you could make it not,
like keep all the information local,
like internal company stuff,
they don't wanna like upload all of their source code
into the cloud just so that they can ask it questions
about it.
- Yeah, exactly.
The other one was to generate starter projects
and code based on ideas.
So you can say generate me a Jupyter notebook
that explains how to use Matplotlib.
- Okay.
- And it'll come over the notebook and it'll do,
so here's a bunch of different examples
and here's how you might apply a theme
and it'll create things.
And one of the things that they actually have to do
is they use Lang chain and AI agents to in parallel
go break that into smaller things
that are actually gonna be able to handle
and send them off to all be done separately
and then compose them.
So it'll say, oh, what's that problem?
Instead of saying, what's the notebook,
it'll say, give me an outline of how somebody might learn this.
And then for each step in the outline,
that's a section in the document that it'll go have the AI
generate those sections.
And it's like a smaller problem that
seemed to get better results.
So anyway, this is a way bigger project than just like,
maybe I can pipe some information to ChatGPT.
There's a lot of crazy stuff going on here
that people who live in Jupyter might want to check out.
- It is pretty neat.
I was not around the Jupyter stuff,
but I was thinking that a lot of software work
is the maintenance, not the writing it in the first place.
So what we've done is like taken the fun part
of making something new and giving it to a computer
and we'll all be just like software maintainers afterwards.
- Exactly, we'll just be plumbers.
(laughing)
Sewer overflowed again, call the plumber.
No, I don't want to go in there.
And also, I'm just imagining a whole bunch of new web apps
showing up that are generated by ideas.
And they kind of work, but nobody knows how to fix them.
Sure.
I think that you're right, and that that's going to be what's
going to happen a lot.
But you technically could come to an existing notebook
and add a cell below it and go, I don't really understand.
Could you try to explain what is happening
in the line in the cell above?
And it also has the possibility for making legacy code better.
And if that's the reality, we'll see.
>>Yeah.
Hopefully it's a good thing.
So cool.
>>All right.
Well, those are all of our items.
That's the last one I brought.
Any extras?
>>I got a couple extras.
Will McGugan and gang at Textualize
have started a YouTube channel.
And so far, there's--
and some of these--
I think it's a neat idea.
Some of the tutorials that they already have,
They're just walking through some of the tutorials
in video form at this point.
And there's three up so far of stopwatch intro
and how to get set up and use Textualize.
And I like what they're doing over there,
and it's kind of fun.
Another fun thing--
I like it too, because it's--
Textualize-- rich is a visual thing,
but Textualize is like a higher level UI framework
where you've got docking sections and all kinds
of really interesting UI things.
And so sometimes learning that in an animated,
active video form is really maybe better
than reading the docs.
- Yep. And then something else that they've done.
So maybe watch that if you want to try to build
your own command line, text user interface,
a TUI as it were.
Or you can take your command line interface
and just pipe, use a Trogon, Trogon,
I don't know how you say that, T-R-O-G-O-N.
It's by Textualize also, it's a new project.
And the idea is you just,
I think you use it to wrap your own,
your own command line interface tool
and it makes a graphic or text-based user interface
out of it.
There's a little video showing an example
of Trogon app applied to SQLite Utils,
which has a whole bunch,
SQLite Utils has a bunch of great stuff,
and now you can interact with it with a GUI instead,
and that's kind of fun.
Works around Click, but apparently they will support
other libraries and languages in the future.
So, interesting.
- Yeah, it's like you can pop up the documentation
for a parameter while you're working on it
in a little modal window or something.
Looks interesting.
- Yeah, well, I was thinking along the lines
of even like in a internal stuff,
it's fairly, you're gonna write like a make script
or a build script or some different utilitarian thing
for your work group.
If you use it all the time, command line's fine.
But if you only use it like every, you know,
once a month or every couple weeks or something,
it might be that you forget about some of the features
and yeah, there's help, but having it as a GUI,
if you could easily write a GUI for it, that's kind of fun.
So why not?
The other thing I wanted to bring up,
completely different topic is the June 2023 release
of Visual Studio Code came out recently
and I hadn't taken a look at it.
I'm still, I've installed it,
but I haven't played with it yet.
And the reason why I want to play with it
is they've revamped the test discovery and execution.
So apparently you can,
there were some glitches with finding tests sometimes.
So I'm looking forward to trying this out.
You have to turn it on though.
You have to, there's so this new test discovery stuff,
you have to go, you have to like set a opt into flag.
And I just put the little snippet in our show notes.
So you can just copy that into your settings file
to try it out.
Yeah.
- Excellent.
- I guess that's all I got.
Do you have any extras?
- I do. I do.
I have a report, a report from the field, Brian.
So I had my 16 inch MacBook Pro M1 Max as my laptop.
And I decided I just,
it's not really necessarily the thing for me.
So I traded it in and got a new MacBook Air 15 inch,
one of those big, really light ones.
And I just wanna sort of compare the two
if people are considering this.
You know, I have my mini that we're talking on now
with my big screen and all that,
which is a M2 Pro, it was super fast.
And I found like that thing was way faster
than my much heavier, more expensive laptop.
Like, well, why am I dragging this thing around
if it's not really faster, if it's heavy,
has all these cores and stuff
that are just burning through the battery,
even though it says it lasts a long time,
it's like four or five hours
was a good day for that thing.
I'm like, you know what?
I'm gonna trade it in for the new,
a little bit bigger Air.
And yeah, so far that thing is incredible.
It's excellent for doing software development thing.
The only thing is the screen's not quite as nice,
but for me, I don't live on my laptop, right?
I've got like a big dedicated screen.
I'm normally at then I'm like out somewhere.
So small is better and it lasts like twice as long
and the battery.
So, and I got the black one,
which is weird for an Apple device, but very cool.
People say it's a fingerprint magnet and absolutely,
but it's also a super, super cool machine.
So people are thinking about it.
I'll give it a pretty, I'll give it like a 90% thumbs up.
The screen's not quite as nice.
It's super clear, but it kind of is like washed out
a little harder to see in light,
but other than that, it's excellent.
So here's my report.
I did my expensive MacBook for an incredibly light, thin,
and often faster, right?
When I'm doing stuff in Adobe Audition
for audio or video work, or a lot of other places,
like those things that I gotta do,
like noise reduction and other sorts of stuff,
it's all single threaded.
And so it's like 20% faster than my $3,500
MacBook Pro Max thing.
And lighter and smaller, you know, all the good things.
But you're still using, your, your mini for some, some of your workload.
I use my mini for almost all my work.
Yeah.
If I'm not out, then I usually, or sitting on the couch, then it's
all mini, mini, mini all the time.
Okay.
Yeah.
Is it black on the outside also then?
It's, it's cool looking.
It's cool.
You can throw a sticker on that and somebody to hide that it's Apple and
people might think you just have a Dell.
- They wouldn't know, that's right.
Run Parallels, you can run Linux on it.
They're like, "Oh, okay, Linux, got it.
"What is that thing?
"That's a weird..."
Yeah, you could disguise it pretty easy if you want.
Or just your sticker stained out better, you never know.
All right, so people are thinking about that,
a pretty cool device.
But, Brian, if somebody were to send you a message
and trick you, like, "Hey, you want a MacBook?
"You wanna get your MacBook for free?"
You don't want that, right?
- No.
So companies, they'll do tests.
They'll test their people just to make sure,
like, hey, we told you not to click on weird looking links,
but let's send out a test and see if they'll click on a link.
And there's this picture,
this guy getting congratulated by the CEO.
IT congratulated me for not failing the phishing test.
And the guy's like, deer head, like,
Oh no, me who doesn't open emails is what the picture says.
(laughing)
So you just ignore all your work email.
You know, you won't get caught in the phishing test.
How about that?
- Yeah, those are,
you've been out of the corporate for a while.
It happens.
We've got, I've had some phishing tests come through.
- Have you gone through this?
Yeah, okay.
- Yeah, well, like the email,
like looks like it came from,
So that's one of the problems is it looks like it's legit
and it has like, you know, the right third party company
that we're using for some service or something.
And you're like, wait, what is this?
And then the link doesn't match up with the,
whatever it says it's going to and things like that.
But it actually is harder now, I think,
to verify what's real and what's not
when more companies do use third-party services
for lots of stuff.
So, yeah.
- Yeah.
- Anyway.
- Yeah, it's a joke, but it is serious.
I worked for a company where somebody got a message,
I think either, it might have been
through a hacked email account,
or it was spoofed in a way that it looked
like it came from a higher-up that says,
hey, there's a really big emergency.
This vendor's super upset.
We didn't pay them.
They're kind of suing us if we don't, you know,
could you quick transfer this money over
to this bank account?
And because it came from, you know,
somebody who looked like they should be asking that, right?
It almost happened, so.
- Jeez. - It's not good.
- That's not good, yeah.
I get texts now, like the latest one was just this weekend,
I got a text or something that said,
said, hey, we need information about your shipping
for Amazon shipment or something.
And it's like, copy and paste this link into your browser.
And it's just like bizarre link.
And I'm like, no, it would be amazon.com something.
There's no way it's gonna be Bob's Burgers, whatever.
- Yeah, Amazon.
Yeah, let's go to amazon.com.
- Anyway.
- Oh, well.
- Well, may everybody get through their day
without clicking on phishing emails.
- That's right.
Yeah, may you pass the test.
- Or don't read email, just stop reading email.
- Yeah, think about how productive you'll be.
Well, this was very productive, Brian.
- Yes, it was. - Yeah.
- Well, thanks for hanging out with me this morning.
So it was fun. - Yeah, absolutely.
Thanks for being here, as always.
And everyone, thank you for listening.
It's been a lot of fun.
See you next time.
- Bye.